.TH create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler 1 "atlc-4.1.0 11/12/02" "Dr. David Kirkby"
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBcreate_bmp_for_stripline_coupler\fR - bitmap generator for coupler with thin striplines between two infinitly wide groundplanes (part of \fBatlc\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcreate_bmp_for_stripline_coupler [-C] [-b bitmapsize] [-v] H w s Er outputfile\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate_bmp_for_stripline_coupler\fR is a pre-processor for \fBatlc\fR, the finite difference 
programme that is used to calculate the 
properties of a two and three conductor electrical transmission lines of arbitrary 
cross section. The programme \fBcreate_bmp_for_stripline_coupler\fR is used as a fast way of
generating bitmaps (there is no need to use a graphics programme), for a
pair of 1 pixel thick conductors of width w, spaced a distance s apart, 
inside a pair of
groundplanes of  separation H. This has an exact analytical
answer, when the inner is infinitely thin and the overall width W is infinitely
wide. This theoretical impedance is calculated and printed to stderr if:
.br
a) The -v option is given on create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler's command line. AND
.br
b) create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler was linked against the gsl library at http://sources.redhat.com/gsl/
.P
-----------------------------------------------------  ^
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br                                                     
|                  Er                               |  |
.br                                                     
|                                                   |  |
.br                                                     
|            -----------       -----------          |  H
.br
|            <----w----><--s--><----w---->          |  |
.br       
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
-----------------------------------------------------  v
.br
<-------------------------W------------------------->
.br

The overall width W is calculated internally to be large enough that
making it any larger will have negligable effect on the results.
The dielectric is assumed that of vacuum.
.PP 
.br
The bitmaps produced by \fBcreate_bmp_for_stripline_coupler\fR are 24-bit bit colour bitmaps, as are required by \fBatlc\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-C \fR
.br
Print the full copyright information and exit.
.PP
.br
\fB-b bitmapsize\fR
.br
is used to set the size of the bitmap, and so the accuracy to which atlc
is able to calculate the coupler's properties. The default
value for 'bitmapsize' is normally 18 although this can be set at
compile time. (see 'DEFAULT_COUPLER_BITMAP_SIZE' in definitions.h). The value can be set anywhere from 6 to 28. The size of bitmap produced will be
between 2^(bitmapsize-1) and 2^(bitmapsize+1), so if its set to 28 the
bitmap could be as big as 512 Mb, which would take an eternity to
compute. 
.PP
\fB-v \fR
.br
Print some extra data to stdout on the theoetical impedance of the
structure. This is useful to compare with the numerical result from
\fBatlc\fR
.SH EXAMPLES
.br
In the first example, a standard coupler is created, where the 


eg1. create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler  1.23 0.7 1.2 1.0  coupler.bmp
.br
eg2. create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler -b 8 1.23 0.7 3.3  small.bmp 
.br
eg3. create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler -v 12 1.23 0.7 4.8  theory.bmp  
.br













.P
.SH SEE ALSO
atlc(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline(1)
design_coupler(1)
find_optimal_dimensions_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
readbin(1)
.P 
.br
http://atlc.sourceforge.net                - Home page 
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/atlc       - Download area
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html       - HTML docs
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/qex-december-1996/atlc.pdf - theory paper
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/examples                        - examples
.br
http://www.david-kirkby.co.uk              - my home page
.br
http://www.david-kirkby.co.uk/ham          - ham radio pages
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Dr. David Kirkby PhD, email drkirkby@ntlworld.com, G8WRB.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (c) 2002 Dr. David Kirkby. 
.PP

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.pp
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.p
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License (in
the file COPYING) along with this program. You may get a full copy of it
by running the programme with the -C option. Otherwise you can write to the 
Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, 
MA  02111-1307, USA.
