.TH create_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline 1 "atlc-3.0.1 29/3/02" "Dr. David Kirkby"
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline\fR - bitmap generator for thin conductor betwen two
infinite groundplanes (part of \fBatlc\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline  W H w bitmapfile\fR
.br
.SH WARNING
This man page is not a complete set of documentation. See the html files
for more complete information. So far, I've not managed to install the
html files into /usr/local, so you will have to look into the
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs directory for them. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline\fR is a pre-processor for \fBatlc\fR, the finite difference 
programme that is used to calculate the 
properties of a two-conductor electrical transmission line of arbitrary 
cross section. The programme \fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline\fR is used as a fast way of
generating bitmaps (there is no need to use a graphics programme), for a
1 pixel thick conductor of width w, centrally located inside a pair of
groundplanes of width W and separation H. This has an exact analytical
answer, when the inner is infinitely thin and the width W is infinitely
wide. This theoretical impedance is also calculated by the create_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline. It is therefore used
as a test of atlc. 
.P
-----------------------------------------------------  ^
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br                                                     
|                                                   |  |
.br
|              <----------w----------->             |  |
.br
|                                                   |  H
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
-----------------------------------------------------  v
.br
<-------------------------W------------------------->
.br

The parameters 'W' and 'H' and the inner dimensions of the outer conductor.
The outer dimensions of the inner conductor are 'w' and 'c'. The inner
conductor is assumed to rest on a dielectric (Er2) which is 'd' wide and
'h' tall. The dielectric is offset 'a' from the left hand side wall of the
outer conductor an the inner conductor is offset 'b' from the left hand
sidewall of the outer conductor. The whole region is surrounded by a
dielectric of relative permittivity 'Er1'. The dielectrics 'Er1' and
'Er2' can be different, or the same. If there is just an air dilectric,
then 'Er1' and 'Er2' will both be 1.0 
.PP 
.br
The bitmaps produced by \fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline\fR are 24-bit bit colour bitmaps, as are required by \fBatlc\fR. Currenly create_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline only produces bitmaps with
white (vacuum) dielectrics. 

.SH OPTIONS
There are no options for create_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline.
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
atlc(1), create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect(1), create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ(1). create_bmp_for_rect_in_rect(1), create_bmp_for_circ_in_rect(1).
create_bmp_for_rect_in_circ(1), readbin(1) and create_bmp_for_symmetical_stripline(1).
.P 
.br
http://atlc.sourceforge.net                - Home page 
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/atlc       - Download area
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html       - HTML docs
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/qex-december-1996/atlc.pdf - theory paper
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/examples                        - examples
.br
http://www.david-kirkby.co.uk              - my home page
.br
http://www.david-kirkby.co.uk/ham          - ham radio pages
.br
