.TH readbin 1 "atlc-3.0.1 29/3/02" "Dr. David Kirkby"
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBreadbin\fR - ATLC's binary file information provider
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBreadbin  filename.bin\fR
.br
.SH WARNING
This man page is not a complete set of documentation. See the html files
for more complete information. So far, I've not managed to install the
html files into /usr/local, so you will have to look into the
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs directory for them. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBreadbin\fR  reports on the number and type of pixels created 
by the programme atlc. 
.PP 
.SH OPTIONS
.br
There are no options for readbin
.SH EXAMPLE
% readbin coax2.V.bin
.br
file length=127008 bytes = 15876 pixels
.br
there are: 489 ones, 10852 zeros, 0 -ones, 4535 other values
.br
.SH FILES
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html
.br
the full documentation. 
bitmapfile.bmp
   Original bitmap file. Must be 24-bit colour uncompressed.
.br
.br 
bitmapfile.Ex.bin
.br 
   X-component of E-field as a binary.  
.br
bitmapfile.Ey.bin
.br
   y-component of E-field as a binary. .
.br 
bitmapfile.E.bin
.br 
   Sqrt(Ex^2+Ey^2), as a binary. 
bitmapfile.V.bin
.br 
bitmapfile.V.bin
.br 
   Voltage as a binary. 
.PP
All the saved binary files (.bin's) are saved as a double precision
number for each of the pixels. The first double is the top left, the
last the bottom right. 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO

atlc(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline(1)
design_coupler(1)
find_optimal_dimensions_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
.P 
.br
http://atlc.sourceforge.net                - Home page 
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/atlc       - Download area
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html       - HTML docs
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/qex-december-1996/atlc.pdf - theory paper
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/examples                        - examples
.br
http://www.david-kirkby.co.uk              - my home page
.br
http://www.david-kirkby.co.uk/ham          - ham radio pages
.br
